Testing with Second-Generation Packaging (#2597)
SFDO-Tooling/CumulusCI: docs/2gp_testing.rst

> Testing with Second-Generation Packaging

Reviewer: This file needs to be added to the index in order to show up somewhere, right?

Reviewer 2: Whoops. Adding it under Continuous Integration; discussion welcome.

========================================

> CumulusCI and the CumulusCI Flow make it easy to harness the power of second-generation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CumulusCI makes it easy to harness the power of second-generation
```

(I think most of this is relevant regardless of what branch structure / git flow you're using.)

managed packages to implement an advanced, comprehensive testing process for *both* 
first- and second-generation managed package products.

This process yields multiple benefits:

> * You can test managed packages before merging code.

Reviewer: I mean, we did that before, as unmanaged deployments. The key difference is that this way it's actually a managed package with the differences that go along with that (separate namespace, install script, ...). Should we spell that out?

* You gain the ability to perform end-to-end testing for packages with more complex

>   dependency structures earlier in the development lifecycle.

Reviewer: Would it be clearer to simply say "with multiple packages" rather than "for packages with more complex dependency structures"?

`2GP Testing for Quality Assurance`_.

CumulusCI stores data about feature test packages in GitHub commit-status messages. When the
``build_feature_test_package`` flow completes successfully, the ``04t`` id of the created
package version is stored in the "Build Feature Test Package" commit status on GitHub.
Testing and 2GP build flows can acquire the package version from this store.

2GP Tests for Feature Branches 
------------------------------

The ``ci_feature_2gp`` flow parallels ``ci_feature``, which is used for unmanaged feature testing in
continuous integration, but uses a 2GP feature test package instead of deploying the project unmanaged.

When executed on a specific commit, the flow acquires a 2GP feature test package id from the "Build
Feature Test Package" commit status on that commit. It installs that package, then executes Apex unit
tests. 

.. note::

    The ``ci_feature_2gp`` flow is intended for use after the ``build_feature_test_package`` flow. On MetaCI,
    this is implemented by using a Commit Status trigger to run ``ci_feature_2gp``; on other CI systems,
    a ``ci_feature_2gp`` build may be made dependent on a ``build_feature_test_package`` build.

> 2GP tests run in CI can replace the use of namespaced scratch orgs for most automated testing objectives. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running 2GP tests in CI can replace the use of namespaced scratch orgs for most automated testing objectives. 
```

main branch or deployed to a 1GP packaging org. 

.. note::
    
    Component coverage for first- and second-generation packages is very similar, but some projects
    may use components with differing behaviors. Consult the `Metadata Coverage Report <https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/metadata-coverage>`_
    with any questions.

Manual QA can be executed on feature branches via the flow ``qa_org_2gp``, which operates just like
``ci_feature_2gp`` but which also executes ``config_qa`` to prepare an org for manual testing.
Similarly, Robot tests may be executed against 2GP orgs by running ``qa_org_2gp`` instead of
``qa_org`` before invoking ``robot``.

End-to-End Testing with Second-Generation Packages
--------------------------------------------------

The ``qa_org_2gp`` flow allows for performing manual and automated end-to-end tests of 
multi-package products sooner in the development lifecycle then was previously possible. 
Take the following example:

* Product B has a dependency on Product A.
* Product B is developing a new feature that is dependent on a new feature 
  being developed for Product A.

> Prior to testing with 2GP, end-to-end testing on Product A and B's linked features could only occur 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Without the ability to test with 2GP packages, end-to-end testing on Product A and B's linked features could only occur 
```
